feat: Add performance summary document (#562)
NVIDIA-NeMo/Automodel: docs/performance-summary.md

# NeMo AutoModel Performance Summary

> This document provides performance benchmarks for various large language models using NeMo AutoModel framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides performance benchmarks for various large language models using NeMo Pytorch backend - i.e. NeMo Automodel.
```

| DeepSeek V3 671B | 256 | 512 | 4096 | 1 | 4 | 1 | 64 | 8 | TE + DeepEP | 8.18 | 250 | 1,002 |
| Kimi K2 | 256 | 512 | 4096 | 1 | 8 | 1 | 32 | 4 | TE + DeepEP | 8.86 | 189 | 924 |
| Qwen3 MoE 30B | 8 | 512 | 4096 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 8 | - | TE + DeepEP | 22.14 | 212 | 11,842 |
| GPT-OSS 20B | 8 | 256 | 4096 | 1 | 1 | 1 | - | - | TE + DeepEP + FlexAttn | 10.04 | 279 | 13,058 |
| GPT-OSS 120B | 64 | 512 | 4096 | 1 | 1 | 1 | - | - | TE + DeepEP + FlexAttn | 4.30 | 231 | 7,626 |

---

## Glossary

- **MFU**: Model FLOPs Utilization - ratio of achieved compute to peak hardware capability
- **TP**: Tensor Parallelism - splits individual layers across GPUs
- **PP**: Pipeline Parallelism - splits model layers into stages
- **EP**: Expert Parallelism - distributes MoE experts across GPUs
- **DP**: Data Parallelism - replicates model and splits data
- **VP**: Virtual Pipeline - number of pipeline stages per GPU for interleaving
- **MBS**: Micro-Batch Size - size of one forward pass in pipeline
- **LBS**: Local Batch Size - size of one step per GPU
- **GBS**: Global Batch Size - total batch size across all GPUs
- **GA**: Gradient Accumulation - number of local-batches before optimizer step

> - **TE**: Transformer Engine - NVIDIA's optimized transformer kernels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **TE**: Transformer Engine kernel optimizations - RMSNorm, Linear and DotProductAttention
```
